README.md, before:

Click-REPL
===

[![Tests](https://github.com/GhostOps77/click-repl/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=GhostOps77-patch-1)](https://github.com/GhostOps77/click-repl/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/click-repl?label=License)](https://github.com/GhostOps77/click-repl/blob/GhostOps77-patch-1/LICENSE)
![Python - version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3%20%7C%203.6%20%7C%203.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10%20%7C%203.11%20%7C%203.12-blue)
[![PyPi - version](https://img.shields.io/badge/pypi-v0.2.0-blue)](https://pypi.org/project/click-repl/)
![wheels](https://img.shields.io/piwheels/v/click-repl?label=wheel)
![PyPI - Status](https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/click)
![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/click-repl)

Installation
===

Installation is done via pip:
```shell
pip install click-repl
```
Usage
===

There are many faciliating ways to create your clic-repl app<br>
All you have to do in your [click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/en/) app is either -

<details open>
  <summary>1. Use <code>register_repl</code> to add <code>repl</code> command to your click app</summary>

  ```py
  import click

  from click_repl import register_repl

  @click.group()
  def cli():
      pass

  @cli.command()
  def hello():
      click.echo("Hello world!")

  register_repl(cli)
  cli()
  ```
  In the shell:
  ```shell
  $ my_app
  Entering REPL...
  >>> hello
  Hello world!
  Exiting REPL...
  >>> :exit
  $ echo hello | my_app repl
  Hello World!
  $
  ```
</details>
<details>
  <summary>2. Use the <code>repl_cli</code> decorator instead of the <code>click.group()</code> decorator</summary>

  ```py
  import click
  from click_repl import repl_cli

  @repl_cli(
      prompt='>>>',
      startup=lambda: print("Entering REPL...")
      cleanup=lambda: print("Exiting REPL...")
  )
  def cli():
      pass

  @cli.command()
  def hello():
      click.echo("Hello world!")

  register_repl(cli)
  cli()
  ```
  In the shell:
  ```shell
  $ my_app
  Entering REPL...
  >>> hello
  Hello world!
  Exiting REPL...
  >>> :q
  $
  ```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>3. Use the <code>ReplCli</code> class in the <code>cls</code> parameter of the <code>click.group()</code> decorator</summary>

  ```py
  import click
  from click_repl import ReplCli

  @click.group(
      cls=ReplCli,
      prompt='>>> ',
      startup=lambda: print("Entering REPL...")
      cleanup=lambda: print("Exiting REPL...")
  )
  def cli():
      pass

  @cli.command()
  def hello():
      click.echo("Hello world!")

  register_repl(cli)
  cli()
  ```
  In the shell:
  ```shell
  $ my_app
  >>> hello
  Hello world!
  >>> :q
  ```
</details>
**Features not shown:**

- Tab-completion.
- The parent context is reused, which means `ctx.obj` persists between
  subcommands. If you're keeping caches on that object (like I do), using the
  app's repl instead of the shell is a huge performance win.
- `!` - prefix executes shell commands.
- `:` - prefix executes some pre-defined internal commands.

You can use the internal `:help` command to explain usage.

Advanced Usage
===

For more flexibility over how your REPL works you can use the `repl` function, the `ReplCli` class, or the `repl_cli` dcorator, instead of `register_repl`. For example, in your app:

```py
import click
from click_repl import repl
from prompt_toolkit.history import FileHistory

@click.group()
def cli():
    pass

@cli.command()
@click.pass_context
def myrepl():
    prompt_kwargs = {
        'history': FileHistory('/etc/myrepl/myrepl-history'),
    }
    repl(ctx, prompt_kwargs=prompt_kwargs)

cli()
```
And then your custom `myrepl` command will be available on your CLI, which
will start a REPL which has its history stored in
`/etc/myrepl/myrepl-history` and persist between sessions.

Any arguments that can be passed to the [`python-prompt-toolkit`](https://github.com/prompt-toolkit/python-prompt-toolkit) [PromptSession](https://python-prompt-toolkit.readthedocs.io/en/stable/pages/reference.html#prompt_toolkit.shortcuts.PromptSession) function can be passed in the `prompt_kwargs` argument and will be used when instantiating your `Prompt`.

Commit message:

modified:   README.md 	modified:   src/click_repl/__init__.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/_globals.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/_internal_cmds.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/_repl.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/bottom_bar.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/completer.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/core.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/decorators.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/exceptions.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/parser.py 	modified:   src/click_repl/validator.py 	modified:   tests/test_completion/test_with_group_args.py 	modified:   tests/test_dev/test_get_internal_cmds.py 	modified:   tests/test_dev/test_internal_cmds.py 	modified:   tests/test_dev/test_register_internal_cmds.py 	modified:   tests/test_dev/test_sys_cmds.py 	modified:   tests/test_repl.py

README.md, after:

Click-REPL
===

[![Tests](https://github.com/GhostOps77/click-repl/actions/workflows/tests.yml/badge.svg?branch=GhostOps77-patch-1)](https://github.com/GhostOps77/click-repl/actions/workflows/tests.yml)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/click-repl?label=License)](https://github.com/GhostOps77/click-repl/blob/GhostOps77-patch-1/LICENSE)
![Python - version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3%20%7C%203.6%20%7C%203.7%20%7C%203.8%20%7C%203.9%20%7C%203.10%20%7C%203.11%20%7C%203.12-blue)
[![PyPi - version](https://img.shields.io/badge/pypi-v0.2.0-blue)](https://pypi.org/project/click-repl/)
![wheels](https://img.shields.io/piwheels/v/click-repl?label=wheel)
![PyPI - Status](https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/click)
![PyPI - Downloads](https://img.shields.io/pypi/dm/click-repl)

Installation
===

Installation is done via pip:
```shell
pip install click-repl
```
Usage
===

There are many facilitating ways to create your click-repl app<br>
All you have to do in your [click](https://click.palletsprojects.com/en/) app is either -

<details>
  <summary>1. Use <code>register_repl</code> to add <code>repl</code> command to your click app</summary>

  ```py
  import click

  from click_repl import register_repl

  @click.group()
  def cli():
      pass

  @cli.command()
  def hello():
      click.echo("Hello world!")

  register_repl(cli)
  cli()
  ```
  In the shell:
  ```shell
  $ my_app
  Entering REPL...
  >>> hello
  Hello world!
  Exiting REPL...
  >>> :exit
  $ echo hello | my_app repl
  Hello World!
  $
  ```
</details>
<details>
  <summary>2. Use the <code>repl_cli</code> decorator instead of the <code>click.group()</code> decorator</summary>

  ```py
  import click
  from click_repl import repl_cli

  @repl_cli(
      prompt='>>>',
      startup=lambda: print("Entering REPL...")
      cleanup=lambda: print("Exiting REPL...")
  )
  def cli():
      pass

  @cli.command()
  def hello():
      click.echo("Hello world!")

  register_repl(cli)
  cli()
  ```
  In the shell:
  ```shell
  $ my_app
  Entering REPL...
  >>> hello
  Hello world!
  Exiting REPL...
  >>> :q
  $
  ```

</details>
<details>
  <summary>3. Use the <code>ReplCli</code> class in the <code>cls</code> parameter of the <code>click.group()</code> decorator</summary>

  ```py
  import click
  from click_repl import ReplCli

  @click.group(
      cls=ReplCli,
      prompt='>>> ',
      startup=lambda: print("Entering REPL...")
      cleanup=lambda: print("Exiting REPL...")
  )
  def cli():
      pass

  @cli.command()
  def hello():
      click.echo("Hello world!")

  register_repl(cli)
  cli()
  ```
  In the shell:
  ```shell
  $ my_app
  >>> hello
  Hello world!
  >>> :q
  ```
</details>

**Features not shown:**

- Tab-completion.
- The parent context is reused, which means `ctx.obj` persists between
  subcommands. If you're keeping caches on that object (like I do), using the
  app's repl instead of the shell is a huge performance win.
- Shell commands can be execeuted via this REPL using a prefix (Default Prefix: `!`)
- Some pre-defined, helpful Internal commands are also registered, and invoked via a specified prefix (Default Prefix: `:`)

You can use the internal `:help` command to explain usage.

Advanced Usage
===

For more flexibility over how your REPL works you can use the `repl` function, the `ReplCli` class, or the `repl_cli` decorator (as shown above), instead of `register_repl`. For example, in your app:

```py
import click
from click_repl import repl
from prompt_toolkit.history import FileHistory

@click.group()
def cli():
    pass

@cli.command()
@click.pass_context
def myrepl():
    prompt_kwargs = {
        'history': FileHistory('/etc/myrepl/myrepl-history'),
    }
    repl(ctx, prompt_kwargs=prompt_kwargs)

cli()
```
And then your custom `myrepl` command will be available on your CLI, which
will start a REPL which has its history stored in
`/etc/myrepl/myrepl-history` and persist between sessions.

Any arguments that can be passed to the [`python-prompt-toolkit`](https://github.com/prompt-toolkit/python-prompt-toolkit) [PromptSession](https://python-prompt-toolkit.readthedocs.io/en/stable/pages/reference.html#prompt_toolkit.shortcuts.PromptSession) function can be passed in the `prompt_kwargs` argument and will be used when instantiating your `Prompt`.
